relationships are difficult you need to
make
time for things stick to them when
they're not doing so well
overcome your insecurities and today
i wanted to talk about one of my most
complex personal relationships
that's with art now you may know me
primarily as
a medical student but i've had quite a
journey with art
also it is one of fear confusion
insecurity and passion so today i will
do a full walkthrough
for those of us who have a confused
identity because we sit
somewhere between two very different
passions and i'll explain
how i went from this to this through all
of the stages of my artistic journey so
far
let's get straight into it the first
stage is the inception
and especially with art i find there is
this huge question of nature versus
nurture and i guess to some extent i was
interested in art from the very
beginning however there is a caveat to
this
i don't think that i was necessarily
talented to start with
i just was very determined to be the
best in my class at
everything so i tried very hard to also
be the best in my class
at art if that makes sense so i don't
think that i was necessarily talented at
all i was just
a very determined child but as i got a
bit older
things started to change because i no
longer had art classes at school so i
didn't necessarily
need to be in touch with it anymore
however i found myself
even more attracted to art and i think
this was because when i was younger
i used to watch a lot of documentaries
and read a lot of encyclopedias
so i kind of got interested in the more
background aspects to
art its cultural and historical
importance and its significance for us
as human beings so i remember being
glued
to this sort of information and thinking
that
art is just really really cool i became
obsessed with it with its power with its
symbolism with its quality
and i wanted to have it but seeing as it
was completely impossible for my parents
to actually buy me real art for myself
um i didn't have any and they were happy
to just buy me canvases and paint and
kind of
let me do my thing so i tried to copy
the pieces that i wanted to have
in my bedroom and this is kind of where
my painting journey started
and these paintings were absolutely
terrible
i will show a few of them yep the the
quality is appalling
i did not know what i was doing but um i
just found it very very fun
now the second stage of my journey is
the dark ages and i call it this because
it's when i completely stopped making
art at all
and the reason for this was that i
thought that i had to sit down
and decide what i wanted to do with my
life i didn't see
any way that i could feasibly make art
work on its own
because i'm just so passionate about
medicine and science
so i thought it just wouldn't work so i
had to focus all my attention on getting
into medical school becoming a medical
student and kind of completely
ignoring art as this you know fun thing
that i
like to do in my free time but which
isn't very important
so sadly for a couple of years i didn't
draw or paint anything and i kind of
completely disregarded
that passion of my life i would still
read a lot about it i would still watch
my fun documentaries and i would
pine in my soul and think that at some
stage i would just
run away and become an artist but that
fortunately
never happened the third stage of my art
journey is the renaissance and i am so
so grateful for it because what happened
was when i started medical school i
realized
that i just had all this free time and i
finally had the space
to kind of go back to art again and the
way that i paint often
is that i guess i'm feeling something in
my life
and i try to make sense of it in what is
happening by usually journaling or doing
something of the sort
and then i try to find some artistic way
to symbolize it
so for the first time in many years i
actually made a physical painting
and um this was done in my dorm in first
year of medical school
and i just refound my passion for art
again i guess
and i started to pay a bit more
attention to it
i went all in in kind of drawing anatomy
whenever i had the chance to
justifying that it was for learning
purposes which i'm not too sure if
that's true
but i was very passionate about art
again and
what happened in this time i found out
about a degree in medical art
and i thought i had to immediately apply
because
it kind of was my dream and these are
the people who basically illustrate
textbooks and
if you're in medicine at all you
probably definitely know about netter
and his atlas of anatomy and i thought
oh this is what i want to do i want to
be a doctor and i want to be
netter and so i wanted to apply for this
program
but because i just come out of my dark
ages i didn't have a portfolio
so i spent a full summer basically
looked in gordon's museum
listening to music and creating a
portfolio in the end of which i did get
accepted into the program which i am
currently going through right now
and these are some of the drawings that
i made for it now before i go on to the
current and the future stages of my
medical art journey
i just wanted to pause for a second on
the bigger picture here i think there
are two main lessons that i've learned
from this whole thing the first one is
that i cannot predict my life
me at the age of 16 sitting down and
writing what i want to do in my future
is not the way that my life will end up
being and
there's no purpose in kind of making
these big decisions and setting things
in stone and saying oh i must never
touch a pencil again
i'm being so melodramatic about my
artistic journey being gone
when you don't know what life will throw
at you and i mean this in the best way
possible
i think that if you actually want
something and you keep it in the back of
your mind and you keep working on it
silently
that life will just give you these
opportunities to showcase your work to
get better at it
and to kind of continue and grow and
that's definitely what
happened with me with the course that
i'm doing right now and the second point
is that no
educational pursuit is futile i strongly
strongly believe in this
and i think that every time that i have
a passion be
it whatever it might be an interest in a
random
you know corner of antarctica and the
rocks that are there or it might be
an interest in science or physics or
um quantum mechanics and whatever it is
i don't think that it is futile to be
passionate in anything
because again you don't know when life
might give you the opportunity to kind
of go in that direction
and work on what you are happy to do and
this is where we get to curiosity stream
which is one of
the biggest documentary platforms out
there and i am so so
so excited that they are actually
sponsoring this video i am clearly
very very passionate about education and
growth and i am
absolutely thrilled to be supported by a
platform which believes in
the same things education has been a
huge part of
most of my journeys and life so far i
honestly think especially for students
the benefit of curiosity stream is
just ridiculous and it costs literally
nothing we have a 26
discount which basically means that you
pay under 15
for a full year of curiosity stream and
that's just like the price
of a decent takeaway and you get access
to literally
thousands of documentaries on any sort
of topic that you like
i am currently geeking out on my passion
for true crime
also when i want to relax i do love to
listen to a bit of david attenborough
it is one of the best investments i
think that you can make and by doing so
you also get free access to nebula which
is where educational creators like
myself
have our videos up so you can get the
full ad-free experience of people like
me and
ali over there so yes if you do want to
sign up to one of the best investments
on the internet
my discount code is in the description
but now i'm going to move on to the
pandemic era of my artistic
journey now the pandemic and the
lockdown has been rough in many
different aspects
and i feel as though i often deal with a
lot of work by taking more on
so it's been a combination of having
genuinely a lot to do
and not feeling in the right space to
create art that means that i haven't
actually painted in two years
i've done a fair bit of drawing but not
as much painting as i'd like
so um yep this has been another second
dark ages but i don't feel guilty for it
necessarily because i know that i just
it just hasn't felt right right now and
i know i will pick it back up again
once my exams are over and the current
stage is that of the internet
i am so grateful for this platform not
only because it gives me the space to
talk about things that i am passionate
about
but also because i feel as though the
more people they are there are
and the more people that are supporting
this channel also the more we can
together support causes that i think
are important so i don't want to leave
art
just as its thing on its own i need to
try i think
um in the summer to incorporate my
passion for art for other causes that i
think
are important to support such as
education and
women's shelters and um things like that
so i'm still thinking on how exactly i
can do this
if you have any advice or suggestions
please let me know i would be greatly
greatly interested
but i think that that is the plan for
the future in regards to my art
and of course graduating from the
diploma that i am currently doing
hopefully in the next few years
in the end i just want to touch a bit on
imposter syndrome i have been looking at
videos of artists on youtube and i love
watching people paint but it also
highlights the fact that i've never been
taught to do it before so i don't think
that i'm doing it
right if there even is such a way so i
do often feel
quite nervous to share my art online
because i think people will point out
all the things
that i'm doing wrong and the fact that
i'm just been self-taught
um throughout most of my life to do
these things but i think
i'm getting over myself and my
insecurities and i will hopefully
be sharing a lot more soon so yes in the
end of the day
i think my main learning points from
this whole journey is that
one i didn't think art was a talent of
mine i think it was just something that
i was determined
to work on because i felt passionate
about it
and secondly that we should stick to our
passions
um you know watching movies about things
that we are interested in listening to
podcasts about things we are interested
in
signing up to curiosity stream and
watching documentaries and things we are
interested in
reading books just keeping things
brewing in the background
and our passions you know slightly
burning away and with little bits of
fuel
now and then is very important because
life is good and i think that we will be
rewarded for our work
in opportunities to get better at it and
work
more at it so i think this is my
attitude towards it in general
if you made it to the end of this video
honestly thank you so so much for your
interest in my journey and your interest
in art in general
i hope that anything i said today was
helpful
i hope you have a wonderful rest of your
day be kind to yourself and others and
don't believe everything you think
thanks bye